# The Perron-Frobenius theorem for multihomogeneous mappings

## The cone of nonnegative vectors

The Perron-Frobenius theory deals with operators that leave a normal, convex and pointed cone invariant. The cone of nonnegative vectors is the most common example of such a cone and the one that most often arises in applications. We denote such cone as $C_+ \subseteq \mathbb R^n$ or, when the dimension is clear from the context, simply as $C_+.$ The elements of $C_+$ are vectors whose components are all nonnegative. Whereas the interior $C_{++}$ of $C_+$ is the set of entrywise positive vectors:


- $C_+ = \{x\in \mathbb R^n : x_i\geq 0$ for all $i=1,\dots,n\}=\{x\in \mathbb R^n : x\succeq 0\}$ 
- $C_{++} = \{x\in \mathbb R^n : x_i> 0$ for all $i=1,\dots,n\}=\{x\in \mathbb R^n : x\succ 0\}.$  

$C_+$ is convex, pointed and normal as $\alpha x\in C_+$ for all $x\in C_+$ and all scalar coefficients $\alpha \geq 0$,  $C_+\cap -C_+ = \{0\}$ and for all pair of vectors $x,y\in C_+$ such that $x\preceq y$ there exists a $\gamma>0$ such that $\|x\|\leq \gamma \|y\|$. Here $\|\cdot\|$ is any norm on $\mathbb R^n$. 

This tutorial will  focus only on $C_+$ however, however we point out that all the results we will present can be  relatively directly transferred to arbitrary normal, convex and pointed cones.  

## Hilbert projective distance 
One of the key tools for the Perron-Frobenius theory for nonlinear mappings is the Hilbert distance. For any two positive vectors $x,y\succ 0$, this is defined as:[^1]

\\[d_H(x,y) = \ln\Big(\max_{i=1,\dots,n}\frac{x_i}{y_i}\max_{i=1,\dots,n}\frac{y_i}{x_i}\Big)\\]

[^1]: This definition is strictly related to the choice of the nonnegative cone $C_+$. For general cones, the definition of $d_H$ changes. However, all its properties do not change. 

$d_H$ is a metric on the space of rays in $C_{++}$, that is it holds[^2]

<center>
$d_H(\alpha x, \beta y) =d_H(x,y)$ for all scalar coefficients $\alpha,\beta >0$
</center>

[^2]: :material-file-document-outline: *Lemmens, Nussbaum, Citation test*

ds

Lorem markdownum fuit peragit eunti, cum illuc heu ferrumque gentis. Curvarique
loca remoraminaque terram iniustaque tempora luctusque vitam; tela iunxit gratia
fontibus ut tempus cupiasque relevasse altis. Mutantur carpere geratis Scorpius.
Visa ego delendaque, victae esse pervenit et arentia gentem.

    if (5 + net) {
        alignment = jumperPpi;
        ppl_server = multiplatform(2, -1) + switchCable;
    }
    var integerCarrier = uml_p_tween;
    metafileCdPram -= scareware.barMultiprocessingIo.box(fiber,
            plugSyn.integrated_add(gif, camera, export_vga_multithreading));
    if (processorSdk) {
        taskCcd = client_clipboard_syntax;
    }

Prope sine coepta: reddi tabo virens expositum amaris saxo [medio
fons](http://www.redeat.io/et) esse Nisi. Dixit **dolorem simulamina** motus.
Gradibus tuta quae addere vero iuvenis candida; ictu Phocaico, tempore addicere
pluma terra?

## Est deus pericula exigere figit

Iani rumpere raptos o columbae non et leonis [ferre qui
quinque](http://www.signaverat.org/oblita.aspx) arva idem *dixit* haec;
advertite candore. Mora invitusque casses,
[totidemque](http://www.relatu-carnibus.io/victae) et erat in nonne novat
iamque: quae? Ab nec fecit et idonea nunc lumine Spartana nunc vertice brevis
pendebant levius contraria aere? Iram orba ferarum dei eburnea; voce
praestantes, me squamas victor contigit pia!

    pitch_ecc.serp_clip = -5 + -1;
    box.tape_digital(subnet_only);
    esports_query_multiprocessing.fontPiconetServices -= document_laptop;

Ipse nomen, certum ego; heros nam, donec et semper parenti formatae
[si](http://dryope.org/et-condidit) iuvenum. Insidias dextera anumque est
habitandae nubes. Quo Latina, quidem: positisque, inter regia puer iurgia, illa
illos **ille** limine flammifera dracones et. Retenta Metione atque iam quoque
Iunone pabula.

Canna ora maxima non penates cautum cruorem quid quid falsi. Ara plus templa,
nymphe innato [parum vestrae](http://www.undae-forma.org/sacerdosdisiecit), tunc
caput instat quo. Tum moras si Euagrus freta ferrove urbs nec etiam ipsis. Nunc
quod aut intrarunt et graves urbes, telluris carmen coget corpus.
